.\" .TH lst 1 2024-11-25 "Local alias man-pages"
.\" Mon 25 Nov 16:37:57 UTC 2024
.TH lst 1 2024-11-25 "Local alias man-pages    ~/.local/share/man"
.po 2.7 .\" 12 was utilized for a long dev cycle and liked with ll 82
.ll 82 .\" .ll 59 is acceptable but is on the narrow end of the range.
.\" .ll 82 rather than .LL 82 which is not obeyed.
.SH NAME
lst (alias) \- recursively list files and directories using \fBlsd\fR(1)

.\"  is this a comment and does not need the trailing quotation mark.

.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf .\" no fill
.BR \fBlst "\fR [\fIdepth\fR] [\fIlines\fR]"
.PP
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B lst
lists files and directories, as with \fBlsd\fR(1).
The listing recurses down to a depth of \fIdepth\fR and prints
at most n \fIlines\fR.

.PP
Using the \fBlsd\fR(1) '--color always' switch, the \fBlst\fR(1)
.I shell alias
pipelines its output - retaining the ansi colors
generated, earlier in the pipe.

.PP
.in +4n
.EX
$ \fBlsd\fR --color always \\
    --icon always \\
    --tree \\
    --ignore-glob node_modules \\
    --depth "$depth" 2> /dev/null | \\
    sed "${max_lines}q" | \\
    cat -n; \\
    echo; \\
.EE .\"  this is a quote following a dot command
    echo used depth of "$depth" and truncated at "$max_lines" lines - see alias \fBlst\fR for details.

.SH ENVIRONMENT
.PP
.fi
\fBlst\fR(1) runs fine without a \fB$PAGER\fR.  The \fBless\fR 
\fB$PAGER\fR will, by default, show ansi escapes literally:
.PP
.in +4n
.EX
 ESC[38;5;245m├── ESC[39m
.EE
.PP
To address this, \fBlst\fR(1) sets another alias, \fBlesst\fR,
to invoke \fBless\fR with a command line switch:
.PP
\fB$ cat ./this_alias\fR | \fBegrep -i\fR \fIless\fR | \fBcat\fR
.PP
.EX
.in +4n
export LST_LESS="${LESS} --RAW-CONTROL-CHARS"
alias lesst='LESS=${LST_LESS} less'
.EE
.PP
discovered:
.in +4n
\fB$  lst | less | cat\fR # defeats the \fBless\fR \fB$PAGER\fR's
\fI'wrong'\fR interpretation of ansi escapes in the pipe
(using \fBcat\fR, it then looks correct - but no longer
\fIpages\fR as with the \fBless\fR\ \fB$PAGER\fR).

.SH OPTIONS
.\" .TP
.B \-\-version
Print the version number of
.BR lst .
.TP
.BR \-v ", " \-\-verbose
Print all information found over there.
.TP
.BR \-u ", " \-\-unused
Print unused stuff like commas in run-on sentences (NONSENSE filler here)
.TP
.BR \-r ", " \-\-rest\-easier
Break stuff recursively.
.TP
.B \-\-help
Usage information.

.SH NOTES
.in +8n
vim note:  :set ft? shows: filetype=nroff
.PP
Several placeholder entries in this manual page that are nonsensical and temporary.

.SH BUGS
.B lst
todo - some minor bugs noticed already.
25 November 16:40z

.\" a .BR tag with text following on same line -- or not -- either way --
.\" seems to be the last line of several other manpages.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR grep (1),
.BR less (1)
.BR
.PP
.nf
localTag  charlesdon
